The penalty for killing a cat, 4,000 years ago in Egypt, was death.
95% of all cat owners admit they talk to their cats.
More cats are left-pawed than right-pawed. Out of 100 cats approximately 40 are left-pawed, 20 are right-pawed, and 40 are ambidextrous.
A cat can jump as much as seven times its height.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose. This is why the cat cannot seem to find tidbits on the floor.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human only has 206 bones.
A cat has four rows of whiskers.
A frightened cat can run at speeds of up to 31 mph (50 km/h), slightly faster than a human sprinter.
A cat sees about six times better than a human at night because of the tapetum lucidum, a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
A cat's whiskers, called vibrissae, grow on the cat's face and on the back of its forelegs. 
Cat whiskers act as feelers or antennae, helping the animal to judge the precise width of any passage.
A cat will almost never meow at another cat. Cats use this sound for humans.
A cat will clean itself with paw and tongue after a dangerous experience or when it has fought with another cat. 
A cat will spend nearly 30% of its life grooming itself.
A cat's brain is more similar to a human's brain than that of a dog.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees.
Cats can hear sounds as high-pitched as 65 kHz; a human's hearing stops at just 20 kHz.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
A cat's jaws cannot move sideways.
A cat's normal body temperature is 101.5 degrees F (38.6 C).
A cat's sense of taste is keener than a dog's sense of taste.
A cat's tail held high means happiness. A twitching tail is a warning sign, and a tail tucked in close to the body is a sure sign of insecurity.
A cat's tail plays a vital part in the cat's balance and in the "righting reflex" that allows it to land on its feet after falling from a height.
A cat's tongue is scratchy because it's lined with papillae-tiny elevated backwards hooks that help to hold prey in place.
A female cat can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
A male cat can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
A group of kittens is called a kindle; a group of adult cats form a clowder.
A large majority of white cats with blue eyes are deaf. White cats with only one blue eye are deaf only in the ear closest to the blue eye.
Adult cats with no health problems are in deep sleep 15 percent of their lives. They are in light sleep 50 percent of the time. 
Cats are only awake 6-8 hours a day.
After being handled, cats lick themselves to smooth their fur and get rid of the "human" smell.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars).
Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Multi-colored male cats are very rare. For every 3,000 tortoiseshell or calico cats born, only one will be male.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
Cat urine glows under a black light.
Cats are attracted to automobile antifreeze because of its sweet taste.
Cats are sometimes born with extra toes. This is called polydactyl.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4.
Cats are the only domestic animals that walk directly on their claws, not on their paws.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Cats have AB blood groups just like people.
Cats can get bored. They show their boredom by excessive licking, chewing, or biting.
Cats can have freckles. They can appear anywhere on a cat's skin and even in its mouth.
Cats can learn tricks. They just sometimes choose not to.
Cats can see color. Studies have shown that cats can distinguish between red, green, blue, yellow, and gray.
Cats can see up to 120 feet away. Their peripheral vision is about 285 degrees.
Cats have 13 ribs.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses it's biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field.
Cats have a third eyelid, called a haw, that is rarely visible. If it can be seen, it could be an indication of ill health.
Cats have about 100 different vocalization sounds. In comparison, dogs have about 10.
Cats have better memories than dogs.
Cats have carpal pads on their front paws that help to prevent them from sliding on a slippery surface when jumping.
Cats have true fur, meaning that they have both an undercoat and an outer coat.
Cats lack a true collarbone and can generally squeeze their bodies through any space they can get their heads through.
Cats love to hear the sound of their own name and your voice, so talk to them often.
Cats must have fat in their diet, because they can't produce it on their own. 
Cats only need a sixth the amount of light that humans do to see. However, their daytime vision is only fair compared to that of humans.
Cats purr at about 26 cycles per second, the same frequency as an idling diesel engine.
Cats scratch to shed the sheaths of their old claws.
Cat have 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
Cats with white fur and skin on their ears are very prone to sunburn.
Cats, not dogs, are the most common pets in America . There are approximately 66 million cats to 58 million dogs.
The average cat consumes about 127,750 calories a year, nearly 28 times its own weight in food and the same amount again in liquids.
Each day in the US, animal shelters are forced to destroy 30,000 dogs and cats.
Ear furnishings are the hairs that grow inside a cat's ears.
Human painkillers such acetaminophen (Tylenol) are toxic to cats. Chocolate is also poisonous to cats.
A female cat may have three to seven kittens every four months. This is why population control using spaying and neutering is so important.
If your cat is in the habit of rolling over and exposing his stomach, you can be sure he feels perfectly safe with you. 
In addition to using their noses, cats can smell with the Jacobson's organ which is located in the upper surface of the mouth.
In ancient Egypt, the entire family would shave their eyebrows off as a sign of mourning when the family cat died.
In general, cats live longer than most dogs. An average life span might be 12 to 14 years. Some cats are reaching 20 or more.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Stroking a cat can help to relieve stress, and the feel of a purring cat on your lap conveys a strong sense of security and comfort.
Owning a cat can increase your overall health and decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Many cats are unable to properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Almost 10% of a cat's bones are in its tail.
More than 30 percent of American households have a cat as part of the family.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Never pick a kitten up by the neck. Only a mother cat may do this safely.
Newborn kittens have closed ear canals that don't begin to open for nine days.
One litter box per cat, plus an extra box, is the best formula for a multi-cat household.
Mother cats teach their kittens to use the litter box. 
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat, which still exists today.
The average canned or dry cat meal is the nutritional equivalent of eating five mice.
The cat family split from the other mammals at least 40 million years ago, making them one of the oldest mammalian families.
The cat lover is an ailurophile, while a cat hater is an ailurophobe.
The cat was domesticated over 4,000 years ago. Today's house cats are descended from wildcats in Africa and Europe .
The catgut formerly used as strings in tennis rackets and musical instruments does not come from cats. 
The color of the points in Siamese cats is heat related. Cool areas are darker. 
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth.
The declawing of a pet cat involves surgery called an onychectomy, which is the equivalent of cutting a human's fingers off at the knuckle.
The different types of tabby patterns that are seen in domestic cats also occur in wild cats.
The giraffe, camel, and cat are the only animals that walk by both their left feet, then both their right feet when walking.
The heaviest cat ever recorded weighed 46 lbs.
The only domestic animal not mentioned in the Bible is the cat.
The ancient Egyptians were the first civilisation to realise the cat's potential as a vermin hunter and tamed cats to protect the corn supplies.
Sir Isaac Newton is not only credited with the laws of gravity but is also credited with inventing the cat flap.
Cats can't taste sweets.
Americans spend more annually on cat food than on baby food.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
In Asia and England, black cats are considered lucky.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about one pounce in three results in a catch.
Studies show that if a cat falls off the seventh floor of a building it is 30% less likely to survive than a cat that falls off the twentieth floor. 
Most cats have no eyelashes.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. 
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. 
In the Middle Ages, during the Festival of Saint John, cats were burned alive in town squares.
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.
When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
Cats purr to communicate. Purring does not always mean happiness.
A cat is pregnant for about 58-65 days.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day.
A kittens eyes are always blue at first.
If a male cat is both orange and black it is most likely sterile.
There are tiny, parasitic worms that can live in a cat's stomach. These worms cause frequent vomiting.
Cats have 30 vertebrae - 5 more than humans have.
A cat's field of vision is about 185 degrees.
A cat has a total of 24 whiskers, 4 rows of whiskers on each side. The upper two rows can move independently of the bottom two rows.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth. The typical male housecat will weigh between 7-9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking.
Female felines are "superfecund," which means that each of the kittens in her litter can have a different father.
Cat saliva contains a detergent that keeps their fur clean.
Cats eyes don't glow in the dark; they only reflect light.
Cats born without tails genetically have a shorter spine and longer rear legs than other cats.
Cats eat grass to keep their digestive systems clean. The regurgitation brings up hair and other irritants.
Cats are able to hear sounds that move faster than 45,000 hertz. They could hear the sound of a bat.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Males weigh 12-20 pounds, with females weighing 10-15 pounds.
The smallest cat breed is the Singapura. Males weigh about 6 pounds while females weigh about 4 pounds.
Cats don't see "detail" very well. To them, their person may appear hazy when standing in front of them.
Kittens begin dreaming at just over one week old.
If an overweight cat's "sides" stick out further than her whiskers, she will lose her sense of perception and stability.
Every cat's nose pad is unique, and no two nose prints are the same.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
The catnip plant contains an oil called hepetalactone which does for cats what marijuana does to some people. Catnip is non-addictive.
Not every cat gets "high" from catnip. If the cat doesn't have a specific gene, it won't react (about 20% do not have the gene). 
When well treated, a cat can live twenty or more years.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Cats can get tapeworms from eating mice. If your cat catches a mouse it is best to take the prize away from it.
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an "ee" sound.
A female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months.
A male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
An estimated 50% of today's cat owners never take their cats to a veterinarian for health care.
Most cats adore sardines.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is marking you as "hers" with her scent.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites - but human bites are the most dangerous of all.
Don't be alarmed when your cats bring you gifts of birds, mice or other wild critters. This is a gift, and they do it to please you.
A smooth, shiny coat is the sign of a healthy cat.
A healthy kitten has clear, bright eyes and clean ears.
If your cat hides and then runs out and pounces on you, she is acting out her instinctive hunting ritual.
Cats lick people as a sign of affection.
Most lively, active kittens grow up to be friendly, outgoing cats.
A healthy cat's nose is cool.
When a cat swishes its tail back and forth, she's concentrating on somthing; if her tail starts moving faster, she has become annoyed.
Brushing your cat daily will cut down on hairballs.
If you do not respond when your cat talks to you, it will soon lose the urge to communicate with you.
Some cats, males in particular, develop health problems if fed dry food exclusively.
A little vegetable oil daily will help to prevent fur-balls and bring a shine to your cat's coat.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
25% of cat owners blow dry their cats hair after a bath.
If your cat is near you, and her tail is quivering, this is the greatest expression of love your cat can give you.
"Sociable" cats will follow you from room to room to monitor your activities throughout the day.
The more cats are spoken to, the more they will speak to you.
Most cats prefer their food at room temperature.
A cat that bites you after you have rubbed his stomach, is probably biting out of pleasure, not anger.
It costs $7000 to care for one household cat over its lifetime. This covers only the necessities; the pampered pet will carry a higher price.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Napoleon was terrified of cats.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
The cat family split from the other mammals at least 40,000,000 years ago, making them one of the oldest mammalian families.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
The first breeding pair of Siamese cats arrived in England in 1884.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
Cat litter was "invented" in 1947 when Edward Lowe asked his neighbor to try a dried, granulated clay used to sop up grease spills in factories.
Genetic mutation created the domestic cat which is tame from birth.
Cats can be taught to use a toilet, come, sit, beg, heel, jump through a hoop, play dead, roll over, open a door, shake, fetch and more.
A cat will not eat its food if is unable to smell it.
34% of cat-owning households have incomes of $60,000 or more.
32% of those who own their own home, also own at least one cat.
If your cat rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech, and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Some cats will actually knead and drool when they are petted. The kneading or marching means that the cat is happy.
Unlike humans and dogs, cats do not suffer a lot from loneliness. They are far more concerned with territorial issues.
Hunting is not instinctive for cats. Kittens born to non-hunting mothers may never learn to hunt.
Cats are attracted to the cave-like appeal of a clothes dryer.
A cat will kill it's prey based on movement, but may not necessarily recognize prey as food. Realizing that prey is food is a learned behavior.
Most deaf cats do not meow.
In England, the government owns thousands of cats. Their job is to help keep the buildings free of rodents.
The word cat refers to a family of meat-eating animals that include tigers, lions, leopards, and panthers.
You can tell a cat's mood by looking into its eyes. A frightened or excited cat will have large, round pupils.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
Cats don't kill their prey with their claws, the claws are used to hold onto the prey, the teeth are used to kill the prey.
The claws on the cat's back feet aren't as sharp as the claws on the front feet because they can't retract into the toe.
Cats perspire through their paws.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
Some common houseplants are poisonous to cats, such as: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Though rare, cats can contract canine heart worms.
Cats think that humans are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Tomcats can mate at anytime, while quenns can only mate during a period of time called heat or estrus.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. 
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
A tortoiseshell is black with red or orange markings and a calico is white with patches of red, orange and black.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. 
Australia and Antarctica are the only continents which have no native cat species.
A falling cat will always right itself in a precise order. 
It is believed that a white cat sitting on your doorstep just before your wedding is a sign of lasting happiness.
Cats are more active during the evening hours.
According to myth, a cat sleeping with all four paws tucked under means cold weather is coming.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Domestic cats purr both when inhaling and when exhaling.
The ancient Egyptians were the first to tame the cat (in about 3000 BC), and used them to control pests.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Female cats are "polyestrous," which means they may have many heat periods over the course of a year. 
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
